---
layout: post
title: "Goal settings: 2015 edition"
date: "2015-01-01"
disqus: true
categories: personal
---

Setting goals is hard. Really hard. Here is my attempt for 2015. I'm sure I have forgotten
tons of things that I really should have as a goal, so I might be back to edit this post during
the year if I find something is missing.

Here we go:

# Home & Family

## Move into upper floor of new house

We are currently living on the first floor only since the upper floor isn't ready yet.
It looks good though, and today I finished the floors in our bedroom.

## Don't spend too much time at work

I can easily forget the time and work until midnight or when my wife calls
me and asks where the heck I am. Sometimes I need to spend more time at work,
but the last year has proven that I don't need to spend a lot of time at work
every day.

This means I normally wrap up my work at 17.00 most days.

# Do something unexpected for my wife every month

My wife takes care of our child 4 out of 5 working days
(I stay at home on mondays), and she needs a positive
surprise every now and then. This can range from
bringing flowers to booking a weekend at a spa, or
something completely different. Ideas are welcome.

# Health

## Continue to rise early

I get my most productive days when I rise early, but with too
little sleep too many days in a row I am certainly not productive.

The goal for 2015 is to find balance with my sleep and still try to
be at work early. In my case early work start is before 7 am.

## Training as a part of my work schedule

Working out is an important part of my ability to focus under
long periods and perform in stressful situations. A real mancold
kept me away from working out the last month of 2014, but I feel
a lot better now and look forward to starting fresh in 2015 again.

My goal for 2014 was 100 gym sessions. I managed about 75, but
then I don't count all the hours I spent building on my house.
I will go for 100 good gym sessions in 2015 as well, without
having breaks longer than a week.

# Business

## Get everyone involved in the work we are doing

We are not as many as we used to be. During 2014 I have fired
a project manager and good friend. Another project manager/sales rep
had to quit because her family moved away to another country,
and our designer have become a freelancer for us since he also had
to move to another country. That's 3 people that left our little
web development agency in a year, and it gave me a lot of administrative
headaches.

That leaves us with only developers. In 2015 all of them will be
responsible for their own customers and projects. We will talk
quality, speed of delivery, customer care and sales with everyone
and I think we have the right people to make it work. Some needs
to up their game a bit, but I am certain they will. They are all
good people.

Even though it wasn't planned I think it was really good for the
business to stop having so many working in the administrative
side of the business. A developer should not only be writing code,
he should understand the business of the customer in order to
deliver the best result. More on that during the year.

## 500 000 SEK in profit by december 31, 2015.

We've had a couple of years where most of our money went to salaries and
investment in our own products. Some of that brought great returns, but
some did not.

2015 will be a year of profit, and looking at the customer base going into
the new year it should be possible.

## Make our offices a development hub

We have great offices in central Växjö, Sweden. I see lots of potential
there. We have lots of space left, so my plan is to offer other developers
and/or designers a spot with us for a reasonable fee. The main thing is not
to bring in more money except for maybe covering a part of our rent, but
to get inspiration from other poeple that shares our passion for development,
the web and cool techy things in general.

# Side projects

I will never have more than 10 active side projects. Right now I'm counting 6,
so the goal is to get up to 10 and also make sure the is some kind of money
into it.

  * Gramfilter - 1000 users (currently 100)
  * Devb.io - 100 users (currently 20)
  * Triple the traffic to the other sites (mostly content sites)
  * Sell at least one of the pages that are not related to anything else i normally do.

