---
layout: post
title: "So, you're the idea guy - huh?"
date: "2015-05-25"
disqus: true
categories: startup
---

So, you have a great idea for a startup. A once-in-a-lifetime idea. There's only one
problem: you don't know how to code. So, you are trying to get a developer to work for
you. What should you do to get them to build the product for you?

I've seen some variants in the past, and as a developer myself I know what works
and what does not. 


## Bad: Equity only

To make a developer interested in the opportunity you need to give a way a
significant portion of the business in order to get any interest. Somewhere
between 20% and 50% depening on your own time and money investment for a brand
new startup having one single developer should be a good rule of thumb.

But, when you bring in a developer for equity they are tied to your business
for a long time. If you want to bring on more developers later you may have
a problem with equity distribution, and if your startup does not make money
in a long time you will have an angry developer going somewhere else. 


## Great: reasonable salary

Sometimes you don't want to give away parts of your company. That is okay.
Then you have to compensate the developer in other ways – meaning a salary.

Yes, money talks. Developers have bills to pay, too. If you can afford it
I would always recommend you to take this route. 

## Good: equity + salary

A little bit of equity can motivate a pay cut. That helps a lot when starting
out and trying to bootstrap your business. Just make it reasonable.

Some people say that the upside of equity is that you can get a little more motivation to build
a good product. But in my experience a developer does the same job if he/she is 
compensated fairly with a regular salary. Most developers take pride in their work.

## Great: Fixed price for fixed scope

This is not very agile, but defining a MVP (minimum viable product) and pay a developer
a fixed price to build this may be a very good way of building your product.

This lets you test the waters and see what you getting. We do this kind of arrangement
in my Rails/Angular-company all the time. The customer has a small scope and we give
him or her a fixed price to make it into a real product. If we work fast we get more value per hour.
If we are slow or make a bad work in estimation we get less. The customer always gets what he asks for and for a set price.

> Remember: your idea is not worth anything unless it is executed.


## Other good things to do

  * Define the scope. Developers want to know what they're up for, and if you have a well-defined scope it will make the decision much easier.

  * Define what everyone will do. Write a simple partner agreement where all roles in the company are defined. If your responsibility is selling and handling Adwords - write that down. It does not need to be complicated, it is a good way of getting everyone to understand what the others are doing.

## Bad things to do

 * Saying "this will be good for your portfolio" or "Think of all the exposure you will get" and offer no payment.
 
 * Having no scope or plan.

 * Forgetting to tell the developer what your role is. 

 * Overvaluing the idea. An idea alone is worth very little. I get new product ideas every day, and if ideas were valuable I would be super rich a long time ago. 



