---
title: "Community vs Code Quality (Wordpress, Ruby, JavaScript)"
author: david_elbe
layout: post
permalink: /2015/community-vs-code-quality
description: "Sometimes community is more important than code quality, sometimes not."
---

I've been writing code and developing software for a long time. Lately, I've been thinking
a lot about what have made me pick the frameworks and tools I use.

## WordPress

WordPress is what we use for new websites for clients that want to update their website on their own. More often than not, the client specifially ask for WordPress.

*WordPress* is a great example of bad code, good community. If you look around in the Wordpress plugin directory
or install a random theme from the free theme repository, chances are that you will find the code in pretty bad shape.

But the great thing about the community is that it is large. Most of the time you will find a pre-existing solution to your problem. If you are willing to spend a few dollars you can buy a premium plugin or theme in hope of getting little better code. But in general, many of the plugins I've tried are poorly written, even if they solve the problem. They *lack tests* and are often abandoned by their maintainers, leaving little to no information for upcoming developers how to continue the work.

There are exceptions, of course. Some plugins are excellent. Some themes are really good. But in general, they suck. If you ask a WordPress plugin maintainer about how she tests it you'll most likely get the answer "Yeah, I click around and see that it works".

But we use WordPress anyway, and it is mostly a business-decision. Since the community around WordPress is so large it will likely continue to exist and thrive in the upcoming years. It is not the best solution out there, but it is the most popular one. For us at [Standout](http://standout.se/) it means that we can focus on creating the websites.

Like most web companys older than 10 years, We used to build things in a custom CMS that we created on our own. Today, all new sites are made using WordPress. Hosting is easy. Upgrading basically takes care of itself and once you understand the oddities of the WordPress codebase it is pretty easy to extend it with custom functionality.

Many web designers love WordPress. Most of our developers hate it. But given the alternatives; this is probably the best option for a quick website today.

## Ruby

Then, enter the Ruby community. Again, a fantastic community with lots of engaged people. The main difference here is that most Ruby developers really care about code quality.

Pick any fairly popular Ruby gem and it likely comes with a test suite, a well-written Readme and a Github-page where issues are handled, a code-climate badge and possibly a few other things relating to code quality. If you contribute and add new functionality without providing tests it will be rejected.

Ruby gems are in a central repository, with search functionality and history. This is great. Ruby development is predictable. Sometimes a bit boring, because you know what you'll get. But it works great, it is stable and it is fast enough for most tasks.

## JavaScript

JavaScript is fantastic. I hate JavaScript.

The community is all over the place, and you never know what to expect. New frameworks are out every week. Sometimes they come with a test suite that is well-written and a good documentation. Sometimes they both are missing.

But the things you can do with JavaScript are amazing. The already large community is growing and the expansion into desktop software is thrilling. I just wished it took more of a Ruby-route instead of the WordPress-approach. Perhaps it is unfair to compare a blogging tool/framework to a scripting language, but the concepts of success are the same, and it will apply to JavaScript frameworks like AngularJS, Backbone, jQuery and EmberJS too. They will live and die based on a combination of their code quality and their community.

## Quick Ugly Hacks

The thing about quick ugly hacks is that they are intended to be short-lived. The large communities with low standards will keep ugly hacks alive for far longer than any community with high coding standards. I think that is and will be the biggest problem of the WordPress community, and parts of the JavaScript community. Sometimes it is far too easy to get started. Ruby has a big problem in that it is much harder to get started with, but in terms of code quality I think it helps.
